# LA-Crime

This project analyzes Los Angeles crime data found at https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/crime-data-from-2020-to-present.

For this project we want to look at Los Angeles crime data from 2022 to present. We first want to look at trends in crime over time and location to determine where and when crimes are more likely to take place. This will consist of an analysis of total crimes committed across varying dates, times, and locations to determine specific combinations of factors that would suggests higher or lower rates of crime. In addition, we are interested in determining who is most at risk for particular types of crime, i.e., violent, property, etc. This will consist of an analysis of the number of crime types across differing gender, age, and race.

## Analysis
In our analysis of 761582 crimes, we found that 63% of crimes committed were property crimes and 31% were violent crimes. We find distinct differences in the manner of occurence of the two crime types across the time of day, day of the week, and month of the year. When looking at all types together we observe a manner of occurence similar to that of property crimes, due to those crimes making up the majority of total crimes. Thus, we need to separate out violent crimes to determine their distinct manner of occurence. 
When looking at time of occurence for crimes, we see an unusual spike at noon. For crimes other than violent crimes, there is a 75% increase and then 75% decrease from 11 a.m. to noon and noon to 1 p.m., with most of the times being exactly at noon. We believe that because of the possible absence of victims at the scene of the crime, many of these values are simply placeholders for unknown times. We also found ages 30 and 50 treated this way, likely for similar reasons. Ignoring the spike at noon, we see property crime peaking between the hours of 5 p.m. and 7 p.m. and violent crime peaking between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m., with both types reaching a low at 5 a.m. Looking at crime across the days of the week, violent crime peaks on Friday, compared to property crime peaking on Sunday, with Saturday as the 2nd highest day for both crimes. Over the course of the year we observed that violent crime peaks during the summer and reaches a low in the winter months. For property crimes, we did not observe a seasonal pattern. However, there is a decrease in property crime at the beginning of 2020 when the Covid lockdowns took effect, where previous levels were not again reached until October 2021 with crime continuing to rise afterward. This long-term variation does not exist for other types of crime.